TITLE: NASA Announces Historic Manned Mission to Mars Set for 2035
AUTHOR: Michael Chang
NEWSPAPER: The Washington Post
DATE: 2026-05-10
PAGE: 5
TOPIC: Science
LANGUAGE: en
---
The National Aeronautics and Space Administration announced on Tuesday that it plans to send the first human crew to Mars by 2035, marking a historic milestone in space exploration.

NASA Administrator Bill Nelson unveiled the ambitious plan at a press conference in Washington, describing it as "the next giant leap for humanity." The mission, dubbed Artemis Mars, will build on the technology and experience gained from the Artemis lunar program.

"For decades, Mars has captured our imagination," Nelson said. "Now, for the first time in history, we have the technology, the funding, and the will to make it happen."

The mission will involve a crew of six astronauts who will travel to Mars aboard the Orion spacecraft, powered by the Space Launch System rocket. The journey is expected to take approximately seven months each way, with the crew spending up to 18 months on the Martian surface.

One of the biggest challenges facing the mission is the health and safety of the astronauts during the long journey. Prolonged exposure to cosmic radiation, muscle atrophy from low gravity, and the psychological effects of isolation are all major concerns.

Dr. Elizabeth Park, NASAs chief medical officer, said the agency has been conducting extensive research to address these risks. "We are developing advanced shielding technology to protect the crew from radiation, as well as exercise protocols and pharmaceutical interventions to maintain physical health," she explained.

The mission will also require significant advances in life support systems. The crew will need to produce their own food, recycle water, and generate oxygen during their stay on Mars. NASA is currently testing a prototype habitat called the Mars Dune Alpha at the Johnson Space Center in Houston.

SpaceX, led by CEO Elon Musk, will play a key role in the mission. The company has been contracted to develop a landing vehicle capable of delivering the crew and their equipment to the Martian surface. Musk, who has long advocated for Mars colonization, called the partnership "a dream come true."

International collaboration will also be essential. The European Space Agency, the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency, and the Canadian Space Agency have all signed agreements to contribute technology and expertise to the mission.

The estimated cost of the Artemis Mars program is 150 billion dollars over the next 12 years. Critics have questioned whether the investment is justified, arguing that the funds could be better spent on pressing issues on Earth.

"Exploring Mars is not a luxury. It is an investment in our future," Nelson responded. "The technologies we develop for this mission will have applications in energy, medicine, and environmental science that will benefit everyone on Earth."

If successful, the mission will make the United States the first nation to land humans on another planet, cementing its position as the leader in space exploration for generations to come.
